EXERCISES

1. What data types do each of these values represent?

"A Clockwork Orange": STRING

42: INTEGER

09/02/1945: DATE (COULD ALSO BE TREATED AS A STRING)

98.7: FLOAT

$15.99: STRING 

2. Explain when a database would be used. Explain when a text file would be used.

Databases are useful when data needs to persist beyond the running of a program or application. They also facilitate instances when
multiple users will be using and making changes to the data. Text files are great when you have a small amount of data that doesn't need
to be simultaneously accessed by multiple users, and when extensive searches of the data are not required.

3. Describe one difference between SQL and other programming languages.
SQL is declarative, rather than procedural. It is concerned with what, rather than how, when we are using data in a databased.

4. In your own words, explain how the pieces of a database system fit together at a high level.
Databases are repositories for information. The information is stored in a way that makes it accessible to, and manipulable by
database management systems. These systems manipulate and search the data in the database at the behest of their various users.
Databases and DBMS often have related applications that facilitate user interation with the database.


5. Explain the meaning of table, row, column, and value.
A table is a collection of information organized into rows and columns. Columns represent an individual type of data, and each row
represents a cohesive conceptual unit.

6. List three data types that can be used in a table.
Strings, integers, and floats.

7. Given this payments table, provide an English description of the following queries and include their results:
    SELECT date, amount
    FROM payments;
    //This query seeks data on dates and amounts from a table of payments

    SELECT amount
    FROM payments
    WHERE amount > 500;
    //This query seeks data on amounts from those payments that were in excess of 500

    SELECT *
    FROM payments
    WHERE payee = 'Mega Foods';
    //This query seeks all information from those payments made to Mega Foods

8. Given this users table, write SQL queries using the following criteria and include the output:

The email and sign-up date for the user named DeAndre Data.
    SELECT email, date
    FROM users
    WHERE name = "DeAndre Data";

The user ID for the user with email 'aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu'.
    SELECT userId
    FROM users
    WHERE email = "aleesia.algorithm@uw.edu";

All the columns for the user ID equal to 4.

    SELECT *
    FROM users
    WHERE userID = 4;

